The Project Gutenberg eBook of Alice's Adventures in Wonderland
Title: Alice's Adventures in Wonderland
Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland
 CHAPTER XII.   Alice’s Evidence
Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister on the
conversations in it, “and what is the use of a book,” thought Alice
There was nothing so _very_ remarkable in that; nor did Alice think it
on, Alice started to her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she
In another moment down went Alice after it, never once considering how
dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a moment to think
“Well!” thought Alice to herself, “after such a fall as this, I shall
be four thousand miles down, I think—” (for, you see, Alice had learnt
then I wonder what Latitude or Longitude I’ve got to?” (Alice had no
Down, down, down. There was nothing else to do, so Alice soon began
Alice began to get rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a
Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a moment:
it. There was not a moment to be lost: away went Alice like the wind,
Alice had been all the way down one side and up the other, trying every
glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key, and Alice’s
Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small passage, not
poor Alice, “it would be of very little use without my shoulders. Oh,
happened lately, that Alice had begun to think that very few things
before,” said Alice,) and round the neck of the bottle was a paper
It was all very well to say “Drink me,” but the wise little Alice was
However, this bottle was _not_ marked “poison,” so Alice ventured to
“What a curious feeling!” said Alice; “I must be shutting up like a
said Alice to herself, “in my going out altogether, like a candle. I
into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice! when she got to the
“Come, there’s no use in crying like that!” said Alice to herself,
“But it’s no use now,” thought poor Alice, “to pretend to be two
Alice, “and if it makes me grow larger, I can reach the key; and if it
size: to be sure, this generally happens when one eats cake, but Alice
“Curiouser and curiouser!” cried Alice (she was so much surprised, that
kind to them,” thought Alice, “or perhaps they won’t walk the way I
     _Alice’s Right Foot, Esq., Hearthrug, near the Fender,_ (_with
     Alice’s love_).
Poor Alice! It was as much as she could do, lying down on one side, to
“You ought to be ashamed of yourself,” said Alice, “a great girl like
Duchess! Oh! won’t she be savage if I’ve kept her waiting!” Alice felt
Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very hot, she
“I’m sure those are not the right words,” said poor Alice, and her eyes
here till I’m somebody else’—but, oh dear!” cried Alice, with a sudden
“That _was_ a narrow escape!” said Alice, a good deal frightened at the
railway,” she said to herself. (Alice had been to the seaside once in
“I wish I hadn’t cried so much!” said Alice, as she swam about, trying
“Would it be of any use, now,” thought Alice, “to speak to this mouse?
of swimming about here, O Mouse!” (Alice thought this must be the right
“Perhaps it doesn’t understand English,” thought Alice; “I daresay it’s
her knowledge of history, Alice had no very clear notion how long ago
fright. “Oh, I beg your pardon!” cried Alice hastily, afraid that she
“Well, perhaps not,” said Alice in a soothing tone: “don’t be angry
quiet thing,” Alice went on, half to herself, as she swam lazily about
pardon!” cried Alice again, for this time the Mouse was bristling all
“I won’t indeed!” said Alice, in a great hurry to change the subject of
answer, so Alice went on eagerly: “There is such a nice little dog near
it kills all the rats and—oh dear!” cried Alice in a sorrowful tone,
was quite pale (with passion, Alice thought), and it said in a low
Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious creatures. Alice
natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with them, as if
older than you, and must know better;” and this Alice would not allow
Mouse in the middle. Alice kept her eyes anxiously fixed on it, for she
turning to Alice as it spoke.
“As wet as ever,” said Alice in a melancholy tone: “it doesn’t seem to
“What _is_ a Caucus-race?” said Alice; not that she wanted much to
“Why, _she_, of course,” said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with one
Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand in her
your pocket?” he went on, turning to Alice.
“Only a thimble,” said Alice sadly.
Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked so grave
“You promised to tell me your history, you know,” said Alice, “and why
“Mine is a long and a sad tale!” said the Mouse, turning to Alice, and
“It _is_ a long tail, certainly,” said Alice, looking down with wonder
“You are not attending!” said the Mouse to Alice severely. “What are
“I beg your pardon,” said Alice very humbly: “you had got to the fifth
“A knot!” said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and looking
“I didn’t mean it!” pleaded poor Alice. “But you’re so easily offended,
“Please come back and finish your story!” Alice called after it; and
“I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!” said Alice aloud,
Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about her pet:
bed!” On various pretexts they all moved off, and Alice was soon left
any more!” And here poor Alice began to cry again, for she felt very
ferrets! Where _can_ I have dropped them, I wonder?” Alice guessed in a
Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about, and
a fan! Quick, now!” And Alice was so much frightened that she ran off
“How queer it seems,” Alice said to herself, “to be going messages for
began fancying the sort of thing that would happen: “‘Miss Alice! Come
don’t think,” Alice went on, “that they’d let Dinah stop in the house
Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full effect,
“It was much pleasanter at home,” thought poor Alice, “when one wasn’t
“But then,” thought Alice, “shall I _never_ get any older than I am
“Oh, you foolish Alice!” she answered herself. “How can you learn
Then came a little pattering of feet on the stairs. Alice knew it was
the door opened inwards, and Alice’s elbow was pressed hard against it,
that attempt proved a failure. Alice heard it say to itself “Then I’ll
“_That_ you won’t!” thought Alice, and, after waiting till she fancied
There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear whispers
of cucumber-frames there must be!” thought Alice. “I wonder what
“Oh! So Bill’s got to come down the chimney, has he?” said Alice to
Alice,) “Well, I hardly know—No more, thank ye; I’m better now—but I’m
“We must burn the house down!” said the Rabbit’s voice; and Alice
There was a dead silence instantly, and Alice thought to herself, “I
Alice heard the Rabbit say, “A barrowful will do, to begin with.”
“A barrowful of _what?_” thought Alice; but she had not long to doubt,
Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all turning into
something out of a bottle. They all made a rush at Alice the moment she
“The first thing I’ve got to do,” said Alice to herself, as she
thing!” said Alice, in a coaxing tone, and she tried hard to whistle to
and made believe to worry it; then Alice dodged behind a great thistle,
over heels in its hurry to get hold of it; then Alice, thinking it was
This seemed to Alice a good opportunity for making her escape; so she
“And yet what a dear little puppy it was!” said Alice, as she leant
The great question certainly was, what? Alice looked all round her at
The Caterpillar and Alice looked at each other for some time in
This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation. Alice replied,
“I can’t explain _myself_, I’m afraid, sir,” said Alice, “because I’m
“I’m afraid I can’t put it more clearly,” Alice replied very politely,
“Well, perhaps you haven’t found it so yet,” said Alice; “but when you
“Well, perhaps your feelings may be different,” said Alice; “all I know
Alice felt a little irritated at the Caterpillar’s making such _very_
Here was another puzzling question; and as Alice could not think of any
This sounded promising, certainly: Alice turned and came back again.
“Is that all?” said Alice, swallowing down her anger as well as she
Alice thought she might as well wait, as she had nothing else to do,
“I’m afraid I am, sir,” said Alice; “I can’t remember things as I
came different!” Alice replied in a very melancholy voice.
Alice folded her hands, and began:—
“Not _quite_ right, I’m afraid,” said Alice, timidly; “some of the
“Oh, I’m not particular as to size,” Alice hastily replied; “only one
Alice said nothing: she had never been so much contradicted in her life
mind,” said Alice: “three inches is such a wretched height to be.”
“But I’m not used to it!” pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone. And she
This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again. In a
“One side of _what?_ The other side of _what?_” thought Alice to
Alice remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a minute,
“Come, my head’s free at last!” said Alice in a tone of delight, which
“What _can_ all that green stuff be?” said Alice. “And where _have_ my
“I’m _not_ a serpent!” said Alice indignantly. “Let me alone!”
“I haven’t the least idea what you’re talking about,” said Alice.
Alice was more and more puzzled, but she thought there was no use in
“I’m very sorry you’ve been annoyed,” said Alice, who was beginning to
“But I’m _not_ a serpent, I tell you!” said Alice. “I’m a—I’m a—”
“I—I’m a little girl,” said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she remembered
“I _have_ tasted eggs, certainly,” said Alice, who was a very truthful
This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent for a
“It matters a good deal to _me_,” said Alice hastily; “but I’m not
down again into its nest. Alice crouched down among the trees as well
“Whoever lives there,” thought Alice, “it’ll never do to come upon them
frog; and both footmen, Alice noticed, had powdered hair that curled
Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into the wood
Alice went timidly up to the door, and knocked.
“Please, then,” said Alice, “how am I to get in?”
this Alice thought decidedly uncivil. “But perhaps he can’t help it,”
“How am I to get in?” asked Alice again, in a louder tone.
It was, no doubt: only Alice did not like to be told so. “It’s really
“But what am _I_ to do?” said Alice.
“Oh, there’s no use in talking to him,” said Alice desperately: “he’s
“There’s certainly too much pepper in that soup!” Alice said to
“Please would you tell me,” said Alice, a little timidly, for she was
She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice quite
“I don’t know of any that do,” Alice said very politely, feeling quite
Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought it would
“Oh, _please_ mind what you’re doing!” cried Alice, jumping up and down
“Which would _not_ be an advantage,” said Alice, who felt very glad to
Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if she meant to take
that Alice could hardly hear the words:—
“Here! you may nurse it a bit, if you like!” the Duchess said to Alice,
Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-shaped
“just like a star-fish,” thought Alice. The poor little thing was
thought Alice, “they’re sure to kill it in a day or two: wouldn’t it be
“Don’t grunt,” said Alice; “that’s not at all a proper way of
The baby grunted again, and Alice looked very anxiously into its face
its eyes were getting extremely small for a baby: altogether Alice did
said Alice, seriously, “I’ll have nothing more to do with you. Mind
Alice was just beginning to think to herself, “Now, what am I to do
The Cat only grinned when it saw Alice. It looked good-natured, she
wider. “Come, it’s pleased so far,” thought Alice, and she went on.
“I don’t much care where—” said Alice.
“—so long as I get _somewhere_,” Alice added as an explanation.
Alice felt that this could not be denied, so she tried another
“But I don’t want to go among mad people,” Alice remarked.
“How do you know I’m mad?” said Alice.
Alice didn’t think that proved it at all; however, she went on “And how
“I suppose so,” said Alice.
“_I_ call it purring, not growling,” said Alice.
“I should like it very much,” said Alice, “but I haven’t been invited
Alice was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used to queer
“It turned into a pig,” Alice quietly said, just as if it had come back
Alice waited a little, half expecting to see it again, but it did not
“I said pig,” replied Alice; “and I wish you wouldn’t keep appearing
“Well! I’ve often seen a cat without a grin,” thought Alice; “but a
uncomfortable for the Dormouse,” thought Alice; “only, as it’s asleep,
Alice coming. “There’s _plenty_ of room!” said Alice indignantly, and
Alice looked all round the table, but there was nothing on it but tea.
“Then it wasn’t very civil of you to offer it,” said Alice angrily.
“I didn’t know it was _your_ table,” said Alice; “it’s laid for a great
Alice for some time with great curiosity, and this was his first
“You should learn not to make personal remarks,” Alice said with some
“Come, we shall have some fun now!” thought Alice. “I’m glad they’ve
“Exactly so,” said Alice.
“I do,” Alice hastily replied; “at least—at least I mean what I
Alice thought over all she could remember about ravens and
is it?” he said, turning to Alice: he had taken his watch out of his
Alice considered a little, and then said “The fourth.”
Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity. “What a
“Of course not,” Alice replied very readily: “but that’s because it
Alice felt dreadfully puzzled. The Hatter’s remark seemed to have no
“Have you guessed the riddle yet?” the Hatter said, turning to Alice
“No, I give it up,” Alice replied: “what’s the answer?”
Alice sighed wearily. “I think you might do something better with the
“I don’t know what you mean,” said Alice.
“Perhaps not,” Alice cautiously replied: “but I know I have to beat
“That would be grand, certainly,” said Alice thoughtfully: “but then—I
“Is that the way _you_ manage?” Alice asked.
“I’ve heard something like it,” said Alice.
“How dreadfully savage!” exclaimed Alice.
A bright idea came into Alice’s head. “Is that the reason so many
“Then you keep moving round, I suppose?” said Alice.
“But what happens when you come to the beginning again?” Alice ventured
“I’m afraid I don’t know one,” said Alice, rather alarmed at the
“Yes, please do!” pleaded Alice.
“What did they live on?” said Alice, who always took a great interest
“They couldn’t have done that, you know,” Alice gently remarked;
Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary way of
“Take some more tea,” the March Hare said to Alice, very earnestly.
“I’ve had nothing yet,” Alice replied in an offended tone, “so I can’t
“Nobody asked _your_ opinion,” said Alice.
Alice did not quite know what to say to this: so she helped herself to
“There’s no such thing!” Alice was beginning very angrily, but the
“No, please go on!” Alice said very humbly; “I won’t interrupt again. I
“What did they draw?” said Alice, quite forgetting her promise.
moved into the Dormouse’s place, and Alice rather unwillingly took the
advantage from the change: and Alice was a good deal worse off than
Alice did not wish to offend the Dormouse again, so she began very
“But they were _in_ the well,” Alice said to the Dormouse, not choosing
This answer so confused poor Alice, that she let the Dormouse go on for
“Why with an M?” said Alice.
Alice was silent.
“Really, now you ask me,” said Alice, very much confused, “I don’t
This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear: she got up in
“At any rate I’ll never go _there_ again!” said Alice as she picked her
painting them red. Alice thought this a very curious thing, and she
things—” when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice, as she stood watching
“Would you tell me,” said Alice, a little timidly, “why you are
and Alice looked round, eager to see the Queen.
and among them Alice recognised the White Rabbit: it was talking in a
Alice was rather doubtful whether she ought not to lie down on her face
When the procession came opposite to Alice, they all stopped and looked
Alice, she went on, “What’s your name, child?”
“My name is Alice, so please your Majesty,” said Alice very politely;
“How should _I_ know?” said Alice, surprised at her own courage. “It’s
“Nonsense!” said Alice, very loudly and decidedly, and the Queen was
to Alice for protection.
“You shan’t be beheaded!” said Alice, and she put them into a large
The soldiers were silent, and looked at Alice, as the question was
“Yes!” shouted Alice.
“Come on, then!” roared the Queen, and Alice joined the procession,
“Very,” said Alice: “—where’s the Duchess?”
“What for?” said Alice.
“No, I didn’t,” said Alice: “I don’t think it’s at all a pity. I said
“She boxed the Queen’s ears—” the Rabbit began. Alice gave a little
began. Alice thought she had never seen such a curious croquet-ground
The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her flamingo:
always getting up and walking off to other parts of the ground, Alice
Alice began to feel very uneasy: to be sure, she had not as yet had any
Alice waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded. “It’s no use
of them.” In another minute the whole head appeared, and then Alice put
“I don’t think they play at all fairly,” Alice began, in rather a
“Not at all,” said Alice: “she’s so extremely—” Just then she noticed
“Who _are_ you talking to?” said the King, going up to Alice, and
“It’s a friend of mine—a Cheshire Cat,” said Alice: “allow me to
that!” He got behind Alice as he spoke.
“A cat may look at a king,” said Alice. “I’ve read that in some book,
Alice thought she might as well go back, and see how the game was going
to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one of them with the
the other side of the garden, where Alice could see it trying in a
matter much,” thought Alice, “as all the arches are gone from this side
The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to settle
Alice could think of nothing else to say but “It belongs to the
said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately into Alice’s,
Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper, and thought
“Perhaps it hasn’t one,” Alice ventured to remark.
you can find it.” And she squeezed herself up closer to Alice’s side as
Alice did not much like keeping so close to her: first, because the
right height to rest her chin upon Alice’s shoulder, and it was an
“Somebody said,” Alice whispered, “that it’s done by everybody minding
sharp little chin into Alice’s shoulder as she added, “and the moral of
“How fond she is of finding morals in things!” Alice thought to
“He might bite,” Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all anxious
“Only mustard isn’t a bird,” Alice remarked.
“It’s a mineral, I _think_,” said Alice.
everything that Alice said; “there’s a large mustard-mine near here.
“Oh, I know!” exclaimed Alice, who had not attended to this last
“I think I should understand that better,” Alice said very politely,
Alice.
“A cheap sort of present!” thought Alice. “I’m glad they don’t give
“I’ve a right to think,” said Alice sharply, for she was beginning to
But here, to Alice’s great surprise, the Duchess’s voice died away,
linked into hers began to tremble. Alice looked up, and there stood the
“Let’s go on with the game,” the Queen said to Alice; and Alice was too
all the players, except the King, the Queen, and Alice, were in custody
Then the Queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to Alice, “Have
“No,” said Alice. “I don’t even know what a Mock Turtle is.”
“I never saw one, or heard of one,” said Alice.
As they walked off together, Alice heard the King say in a low voice,
executions I have ordered;” and she walked off, leaving Alice alone
with the Gryphon. Alice did not quite like the look of the creature,
half to itself, half to Alice.
“What _is_ the fun?” said Alice.
“Everybody says ‘come on!’ here,” thought Alice, as she went slowly
nearer, Alice could hear him sighing as if his heart would break. She
So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes. Alice thought to
heavy sobbing of the Mock Turtle. Alice was very nearly getting up and
“Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn’t one?” Alice asked.
at poor Alice, who felt ready to sink into the earth. At last the
“I never said I didn’t!” interrupted Alice.
“Hold your tongue!” added the Gryphon, before Alice could speak again.
“_I’ve_ been to a day-school, too,” said Alice; “you needn’t be so
“Yes,” said Alice, “we learned French and music.”
“Certainly not!” said Alice indignantly.
“You couldn’t have wanted it much,” said Alice; “living at the bottom
“What was that?” inquired Alice.
“I never heard of ‘Uglification,’” Alice ventured to say. “What is it?”
“Yes,” said Alice doubtfully: “it means—to—make—anything—prettier.”
Alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about it, so
“What was _that_ like?” said Alice.
“And how many hours a day did you do lessons?” said Alice, in a hurry
“What a curious plan!” exclaimed Alice.
This was quite a new idea to Alice, and she thought it over a little
“And how did you manage on the twelfth?” Alice went on eagerly.
his eyes. He looked at Alice, and tried to speak, but for a minute or
Alice)—“and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster—”
(Alice began to say “I once tasted—” but checked herself hastily, and
“No, indeed,” said Alice. “What sort of a dance is it?”
sadly and quietly, and looked at Alice.
“It must be a very pretty dance,” said Alice timidly.
“Very much indeed,” said Alice.
So they began solemnly dancing round and round Alice, every now and
“Thank you, it’s a very interesting dance to watch,” said Alice,
“Yes,” said Alice, “I’ve often seen them at dinn—” she checked herself
“I believe so,” Alice replied thoughtfully. “They have their tails in
“Thank you,” said Alice, “it’s very interesting. I never knew so much
“I never thought about it,” said Alice. “Why?”
Alice was thoroughly puzzled. “Does the boots and shoes!” she repeated
Alice looked down at them, and considered a little before she gave her
“And what are they made of?” Alice asked in a tone of great curiosity.
“If I’d been the whiting,” said Alice, whose thoughts were still
“Wouldn’t it really?” said Alice in a tone of great surprise.
“Don’t you mean ‘purpose’?” said Alice.
Alice a little timidly: “but it’s no use going back to yesterday,
So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when she first
authority over Alice.
thought Alice; “I might as well be at school at once.” However, she got
Alice said nothing; she had sat down with her face in her hands,
“It’s the first position in dancing.” Alice said; but was dreadfully
Alice did not dare to disobey, though she felt sure it would all come
“Yes, I think you’d better leave off,” said the Gryphon: and Alice was
“Oh, a song, please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind,” Alice
“Come on!” cried the Gryphon, and, taking Alice by the hand, it hurried
“What trial is it?” Alice panted as she ran; but the Gryphon only
good, that it made Alice quite hungry to look at them—“I wish they’d
Alice had never been in a court of justice before, but she had read
“And that’s the jury-box,” thought Alice, “and those twelve creatures,”
they doing?” Alice whispered to the Gryphon. “They can’t have anything
“Stupid things!” Alice began in a loud, indignant voice, but she
Alice could see, as well as if she were looking over their shoulders,
muddle their slates’ll be in before the trial’s over!” thought Alice.
One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked. This of course, Alice
Just at this moment Alice felt a very curious sensation, which puzzled
“I can’t help it,” said Alice very meekly: “I’m growing.”
“Don’t talk nonsense,” said Alice more boldly: “you know you’re growing
“I’m glad I’ve seen that done,” thought Alice. “I’ve so often read in
“Come, that finished the guinea-pigs!” thought Alice. “Now we shall get
her hand, and Alice guessed who it was, even before she got into the
Alice watched the White Rabbit as he fumbled over the list, feeling
little voice, the name “Alice!”
Alice’s Evidence
“Here!” cried Alice, quite forgetting in the flurry of the moment how
with great emphasis, looking hard at Alice as he said so.
Alice looked at the jury-box, and saw that, in her haste, she had put
“What do you know about this business?” the King said to Alice.
“Nothing,” said Alice.
“Nothing whatever,” said Alice.
Alice could see this, as she was near enough to look over their slates;
Everybody looked at Alice.
“_I’m_ not a mile high,” said Alice.
“Well, I shan’t go, at any rate,” said Alice: “besides, that’s not a
“Then it ought to be Number One,” said Alice.
“It proves nothing of the sort!” said Alice. “Why, you don’t even know
“If any one of them can explain it,” said Alice, (she had grown so
“But, it goes on ‘_they all returned from him to you_,’” said Alice.
“Stuff and nonsense!” said Alice loudly. “The idea of having the
“I won’t!” said Alice.
“Who cares for you?” said Alice, (she had grown to her full size by
“Wake up, Alice dear!” said her sister; “Why, what a long sleep you’ve
“Oh, I’ve had such a curious dream!” said Alice, and she told her
So Alice got up and ran off, thinking while she ran, as well she might,
hand, watching the setting sun, and thinking of little Alice and all
First, she dreamed of little Alice herself, and once again the tiny
